##GitHub and Collaborative Source Control

Previously, we learned the basics of using git on your local machine.  We created a repository from scratch, we committed some files, we ignored some files. Now that we know a bit about IPython notebooks, we're ready to see how git fits into the workflow of this course.  Every week, you're going to use git to access IPython notebook files, edit them in order to complete exercises, then make your finished work available for grading.  This is a pattern that you will commonly encounter in courses at the Information School.

The IPython notebooks and other files you will use in this course are stored in a web service called GitHub.


##What is GitHub?

[GitHub](https://github.com/) is a popular location for people to store code. During your time as a data scientist you'll frequently come across github when searching for packages, documentation, or for a better understanding of issues. You can do all sorts of great things with it like hosting projects or even your personal portfolio of projects.

##Getting Set Up

To get started, you're going to need to create a GitHub account. You can do this on the [GitHub website](https://github.com/) by clicking the `Sign Up` button. 

Once you have a github account, we'll need to make sure that our local version of git can communicate with GitHub's.

Follow these instructions to set up Git and GitHub to work together.

[https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/)

*** Is this needed?  the relevant instructions aren't easy to find on that website ***

