Now that you understand the course workflow at a high level, let's see how to actually execute the process using github and git.


## Forking a Repository

The first step will be to fork this week's GitHub repository.  Forking a repository is a way in which, on github, you create a copy of a repository that becomes your own copy on your own GitHub. This allows you to make any changes, and save those changes in your own repository.   To create a fork, navigate to the repository at the following address.

*** need repository address ***

On the page that pops up, you'll see a button labeled "fork" on the upper right of the site.  Click that to create your own copy of the repository.  You browser window will then show you the home page for your new repository.


## Cloning the Repository Locally

The next step is to create a copy of the repository locally on your own machine.  This is called cloning.  Remember that the clone command creates a complete copy of the entire repository including all versions of all files.  This is different than centralized version control systems like SVN, that only put a working copy on your local machine.

To create a clone, you'll need the clone URL for the repository on your github account.  In your browser, make sure that you are looking at your own fork of this week's repository on GitHub.  Look to the right of the screen and find the box labeled "HTTPS clone URL"  To the right of the address in the box is a button to copy the address.  Go ahead and push it.

Open a command prompt and navigate to your course working directory.  Then enter the following command, pasting the URL you copied in after clone.

git clone https://github.com/paul-laskowski/week_3

*** need to fix address ***

This creates a new directory called week_3 inside your course directory, initializes a .git directory inside it, and pulls down all the repository data from github.  Navigate into this directory.

cd week_3

You can type *ls* to confirm that all of the week's files are in there.


## Completing an Exercise

Now that you have your own week_3 repository on your local machine, let's practice making some changes.  Start IPython Notebooks running in your browser and navigate to the week_3 directory in your course working folder.  Click on the file named 3.6.2_GitHub_Exercise.ipnb to open it.  You'll see a simple practice exercise in this file.  Go ahead and edit the code cell to complete the exercise, then save your file.

Next, let's commit the changes to your local repository.  Go back to your command terminal and type
```
git status
```
This should confirm that you have a modified file in your repository.  Go ahead and add the file.

git add 3.6.2_GitHub_Exercise.ipnb

then commit your changes

git commit -m "completed 3.6.2 exercise".

Now you've successfully updated your local repository.


## Pushing Changes to GitHub

Now that you've completed the assignment and commited your changes locally, it's time to push your changes up to your GitHub repository. First, you'll want to run `git status` to confirm the branch that you are on as well as what state your code is in. You cannot push code that is in `staging`, you can only push code that is committed (however you can run the command without fully committed code). For this exercise, make sure that all your code is currently committed.

The sytax of the push command is straightforward `git push <remote_name> <branch>` where remote_name and branch will be filled in by us. For this exercise we're going to be pushing to `origin` and we'll be pushing the `master` branch.  Here, origin is a name automatically given to the remote github repository whe cloned from.  We only have one branch, named master, so that's the one we're going to push to.


```sh
git push origin master
```

When we execute that statement we'll get some printout in return that should be similar to what is below.

```
Counting objects: 10, done.
Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (10/10), done.
Writing objects: 100% (10/10), 7.15 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
Total 10 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0)
To git@github.com:MIDS-Python-Bridge-Course/Course-Overview.git
   6e5921a..f975b78  master -> master
```

Now we're not going to concern ourself with exactly what that output is telling us, we just want to make sure that it ended positively and did not give us back an error. Now let's go look at GitHub and find our code is right there!

Congratulations, you've just pushed your first code to GitHub. We'll be doing this a lot throughout this course!

## Creating a Pull Request

As you work through this course, you'll push changes to your own GitHub repository, but you'll never need to change the central repository owned by the instructors (if you did, other students that fork the central repository afterwards would get your answers).  As you can imagine, however, if you were working with other people on a large coding project, you would often want to make changes to your own repository, then copy those changes to a central repository for all other programmers to use. 

If you create changes that you believe belong in the original repository, you can navigate to the central repository in your browser and create something called a pull request.  This notifies the repository owner that you have changes and allows them to pull those changes into their repository.  You can learn more about that here.

[GitHub's Pull Request Instructions.](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/)

One thing that's great about a pull request is that if you realize you may have misspelled something, or forgotten something, then you can just push again (to your repository) and those changes will be reflected in the pull request.

##Conclusion

This has been a quick introduction to git and github, and we've focused on the features you need to succeed in this course.  We will return to the topic of git later to discuss more advanced features.