Before proceeding, use the following instructions to fork the Week_3 repository, clone it on your local machine, complete exercise 3.6.1, and push your changes up to GitHub.
*Italic not desired following "3"*

## Forking a Repository

To create a fork of this week's repository, navigate to the following address in your web browser.

*** need repository address ***

On that page, you will see a Fork button on the upper right. Click it to create your own copy of the repository and open it in your browser.


## Cloning the Repository Locally

To clone your new repository locally on your machine, you will first need the correct clone URL. In your browser, make sure that you are looking at your own copy of this week's repository on GitHub. Look to the right of the screen and find the box labeled "HTTPS clone URL." To the right of the address in the box is a button to copy the address. Go ahead and push it.

Open a command prompt and navigate to your course working directory. Then enter the following command, pasting the URL you copied in after clone.

git clone https://github.com/paul-laskowski/week_3

*** need to fix address ***

This creates a new directory called week_3 inside your course directory, initializes a .git directory inside it, and pulls down all the repository data from GitHub. Navigate into this directory.
*Italic not desired following "3"*

cd week_3

Type `ls` to confirm that all of the week's files are there.


## Completing the Exercise

Start IPython Notebooks running in your browser and navigate to the week_3 directory in your course working folder. Click on the file named 3.6.1_GitHub_Exercise.ipnb to open it. You will see a simple practice exercise in this file. Edit the Code cell to complete the exercise, then save your file.
*Italic not desired following "3"*

Next, commit the changes to your local repository. Go back to your command terminal and type the following.
```
git status
```
This should confirm that you have a modified file in your repository. Go ahead and add the file.

git add 3.6.1_GitHub_Exercise.ipnb

Then commit your changes.

git commit -m "completed 3.6.1 exercise".


## Pushing Changes to GitHub

Now it is time to push your changes up to your GitHub repository. First, run `git status` to confirm that all your code is currently committed.  Next, push your changes to the master branch of origin, representing your repository on GitHub.

```sh
git push origin master
```

Check the GitHub repository in your browser to confirm that your changes are there.