##Branching with Git

By this point, you've seen many of the basics of Git and GitHub.  You know how to fork a repostory on Github, clone it locally on your machine, commit changes, and push those changes back up to GitHub.  Throughout this work, your code has always progressed along a single path.  You've always committed changes to your master branch, whether in your local repository, or on GitHub.  This keeps things simple, but it is also limitting.  When your code gets more complicated, or when you work with others, you will need to make multiple versions of your code with different changes in each one.  This is where branching comes in.

A branch is just what it sounds like - it's a copy of your code that you can change without affecting other branches. You can switch back and forth between branches without changing any code, branches do not affect one another until they are explicitly merged.

Let's begin with a simple example.  Imagine that you want to try out a new version or feature, but you don't want to merge your changes into the master branch right away. You might want to see if the feature is any good, you might want to make sure that other people can continue to merge branches into the master branch, or you may just want to observe good coding practices.  This is a perfect time to create a new branch.

You've seen that we are on a specific branch when we've run `git status` in the past. 

Go ahead and run it in our repository again and you'll see what I mean.

```sh
git status
On branch master
nothing to commit, working directory clean
```

We can see that we are on the master branch which is typically the main branch or the "trunk" of your (and most everyone's) repositories. Now since we want to start off with a feature that we're not sure will be any good, let's go ahead and create a new branch.

```sh
git checkout -b super_cool_feature
Switched to a new branch 'super_cool_feature'
```

We can see here that we've now switched to a new branch. the `-b` flag means that we want to checkout a new branch that we called super_cool_feature. 

Now let's start making these super cool changes. It's important to remember that this branch is completely seperate from our other branches, any code, changes, modifications to this branch are completely isolated from the other branches. We'll see exactly what that means in a moment.

Go ahead and open up `hello.py` in your favorite editor. Instead of just having it print some simple statements, let's make it a bit more interactive. Erase what we have and let's put it.

```py
import sys

print(sys.argv)
```

This file is pretty straight forward and once we run it you should be able to see what this is doing.

The `sys` package is imported, meaning that we can use some of the tools that it provides. We take advantage of the `argv` part of the `sys` module using the dot syntax. This allows us to execute our python script from the command line and pass in arguments.

```py
python3 hello.py
# Should print ['hello.py']
```

```py
python3 hello.py world
# Should print ['hello.py', 'world']
```

Are you getting a sense for what the `argv` does? 

It gives us access to the arguments sent to `python3` in a list format! Now let's show the real power of what we just did!

```sh
python3 hello.py "I'm learning python!"
# Should print ['hello.py', 'I'm learning python!']
```

Now we don't need to explicitly write our messages like we did in the master branch, we can just pass them in as arguments to our program.

Now let's go ahead and commit the changes to the current branch that we're working on. Note that we are on the super_cool_feature branch.

```sh
git status
On branch super_cool_feature
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)

	modified:   hello.py

no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

Now we add it and commit it.

```sh
git add hello.py                                                                
git commit -m "Now parses command line arguments"                                                     
[super_cool_feature 53c3a1a] Now parses command line arguments
 1 file changed, 5 insertions(+)
```

The pattern of status, adding, and committing is extremely common. You'll find yourself doing this all the time. 

----COULD BE UNNECSSARY----

Let's go ahead and make some more changes, we'll make things a bit more interactive now as well. First make a new file called calc.py and add in the below code.

```py
import sys

args = sys.argv 
f = args[0]
func = args[1]
nums = args[2:]

print(f)
print(func)
print(nums)
```

You'll see that we've made our argument list a bit more complicated now.
----ENDCOULD BE UNNECSSARY----

Now that we've committed it, let's checkout our status now. We're still in the super_cool_feature branch.

```sh
git status                                                                              
On branch super_cool_feature
nothing to commit, working directory clean
```

But we can also run another command to see what other branches that we have.

```sh
git branch                                                                              
* super_cool_feature
  master
```

We can see that we have a master branch as well as our super_cool_feature branch. Now our new feature is really great, so let's go ahead and merge it back into the master branch. This is a formalized way of integrating one branch into another one. First what we'll want to do is checkout the master branch.

```sh
git checkout master
Switched to branch 'master'
```

Now we're back on the master branch if we run

```sh
python3 hello.py
```

We'll see our unmodified version of hello.py (the one without the feature that we added). Now let's go ahead and merge the two branches.

```sh
git merge super_cool_feature                                                                        
Updating 4407308..53c3a1a
Fast-forward
 hello.py | 5 +++++
 1 file changed, 5 insertions(+)
```

```sh
python3 hello.py "This is my brand new feature that I just merged."
# Should print ['hello.py', 'This is my brand new feature that I just merged.']
```

*Your output may vary slightly but the general format should be the same.*

We just took a branch that we were working on completely seperately from another one and merged it into another one! This format comes up all the time on projects when large or small teams are working on lots of different features, each that has their own branch. Eventually it will come time to merge the branches into another branch.



##Conclusion

Now you're done! You've covered the basics of git and how git works in the real work. You've created repositories on your own computer, you've forked them from other repositories, and you've pushed to other ones and you've understood how you would go about creating a pull request to work with others on projects.

For the purposes of this course, you've gotten an excellent introduction to git and the GitHub system. Don't worry if you don't understand everything in perfect detail so far. As you get more experience with GitHub, it will become more and more intuitive.

As a final word of advice, remember, any problem you ever have wanted to solve with Git has been solved before! Every single one. So, if you're ever trying to fix a problem, you can simply search for the answers on the internet - the important part is just to frame in using the "git" vocabulary. For example

- *How do you rollback a commit?*
- *how do you edit a git commit message?*

Those are questions using the contextual vocabulary. This is something that will help you over and over again in your technical and data science careers. It's essential that when you're asking technical questions, frame it using the vocabulary of the language or framework you're trying to solve the problem in.

*References:*

- [Git Website](http://git-scm.com/)
- [Git Cheatsheet](http://jonas.nitro.dk/git/quick-reference.html)
- [Better Explained](http://betterexplained.com/articles/a-visual-guide-to-version-control/)