##Getting Setup & Your First Repository

Now that you have Git installed, let's make our first git repository. Open up your terminal and let's navigate to the Desktop.

```sh
cd ~/Desktop
```

once there let's go ahead and create a new folder

```sh
mkdir git_test
```

Now that we've created that folder let's change directories into it

```sh
cd git_test
```

Now that we're in here, let's initialize a git repository.

```sh
git init
```

This creates a folder labelled `.git` in the current directory. **NEVER EDIT THIS FOLDER MANUALLY** as you'll get yourself in all kinds of trouble. It's just good to be aware that it is there and it is what stores all the information about this repository. If you delete the project folder, you delete the version information as well.

Now that we've created that folder, let's start developing a project!

Start by running:

```sh
touch name_game.py
touch ignore_me.txt
```

This will create a python file and a text file in the current directory. Now you'll want to edit them. Open up the python file in the editor of your choice.

In the python file let's start writing a program.

```py
name = input("Enter your name: ")
bname = "B" + name[1:]
print(name + ", " + name + ", bo " + bname)
```

Let's go ahead and make sure that it works. We can do that by executing the python file from the command line. Go ahead and run

```sh
python3 name_game.py
```


Now that we've made those edits, let's return to the command line and commit those changes. first we'll run:

```sh
git status
```

and you'll get a print out like:

```
On branch master

Initial commit

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

	name_game.py
	ignore_me.txt

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```

So at this point we've got our base git repository with no files being tracked. In order for git to track changes, we've got to add a file so it knows to track changes to this file. We do that with `git add FILENAME`. You can also add folders instead of specific files.

Let's go ahead and add our `name_game.py` file.

```sh
git add name_game.py
```

Now run git status again and you can see that things have changed

```sh
git status
```

```
On branch master

Initial commit

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage)

	new file:   name_game.py

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

	ignore_me.txt

```

Now our `name_game.py` file is `staged` or `in staging` and ready to be committed. Git hasn't started tracking the file changes yet - it just know that we're preparing to commit that file to our formal history.

Now let's do just that, commit it to the formal history. We can do that with:

```sh
git commit
```

This will bring up a prompt that will ask us for our commit details, basically a message that we want to leave to others recording the changes that we made. In the prompt, go ahead and write "My first commit".

Note: On many computers, the default text editor that pops up is one called vi.  If the prompt you get is vi you will need to hit the `i` key before you can type.

```
Added name_game.py file.
```

If you're in vi, hit escape and then type `:wq` which stands for `write quit` and that will write the changes, making them permanent.

We'll get some feedback telling us something like

```
[master (root-commit) 1e73b2f] test
 1 file changed, 0 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 create mode 100644 hello.py
```

Now we've permanently saved this version of name_game.py to our history. One cool thing about git is that you can choose to commit whole files or just lines in files to the history, for the most part individual files are granular enough but it's a good feature to be aware of.

Let's try to improve our program and make a new version.  Open your text editor again and make the program print another line:

```py
name = input("Enter your name: ")
bname = "B" + name[1:]
print(name + ", " + name + ", bo " + bname)
fname = "F" + name[1:]
print("Banana Fana Fo "+ fname)
```

Run Git status again to see that the file is listed as modified.  We are ready to add it to the staging area again.

```sh
git add name_game.py
```

And let's commit the changes

```sh
git commit -m "Added second line of song"
```

You'll notice that I used the `-m` flag, this means that we're going to just append the message as a text string right after. This greatly simplifies the way in which you can add messages. However if you're writing a longer one, the `git commit` command allows you to do so easily.

Now all that remains is our ignore file. This is an example of a file that we don't want to track changes to, even if it changes. This may be a file with some notes in it that you don't need to track officially, even if they change. Git can be ordered to ignore certain files or folders and this is done with a plain text file called a `.gitignore` file.

Let's go ahead and create that with the command line.

`touch .gitignore`

Now typically files that start with . are hidden on unix systems, so you may not see this show up in your folder view. However we can edit it all the same, we're going to edit is with the `echo` command from the command line.

Go ahead and run:

```sh
echo "ignore_me.txt" >> .gitignore
```

This will append the quoted text "ignore_me.txt" to our `.gitignore` file. Now when we run

```sh
git status
```

We'll see:

```
On branch master
Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

	.gitignore

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```

Our ignore file has disappeared! This is because git reads the .gitignore file and ignores any file names or folder names that it finds in there. Nifty huh! However we now need to add our .gitignore file so that git can keep track of the files that we want to ignore.

Let's do that now.

```sh
git add .gitignore
```

Feel free to run git status to see how it has moved to staging. At this point we're going to commit that change.  Once again, we'll use the -m flag to speed things up.

```sh
git commit -m "Added gitignore"
```


Now you've learned the basics of git on your local machine! This has taught you a lot about running a local git repository. Of course there's plenty more to learn but that's all we need to start with!

*References:*

- [Git Website](http://git-scm.com/)
- [Git Cheatsheet](http://jonas.nitro.dk/git/quick-reference.html)
- [Better Explained](http://betterexplained.com/articles/a-visual-guide-to-version-control/)
